High in this video we're going to look at objects and Python and we're going to look at the statement
that a lot of people make that everything is an object in Python.
And that's really basically true.
So in this cause we're going to encounter many data types.
We're going to look at integers booleans floats strings lists all very typical objects topples on sets.
We'll look at dictionaries and the non-Thai that we've seen before but we'll see other things as well.
Right.
We're going to deal with operators like plus minus that equals equals equality operator.
The is the identity operator and so on.
Even this operator here which is an operator it's an ellipsis.
We're also going to look at functions obviously and classes and types write all things and we've actually
seen before and things that you've seen before in Python.
And we're going to see many many more throughout the schools.
So they're all different things.
Brian do you have data types that operators classes functions.
But there's one thing in common to all of those things that they are all objects.
In other words they are all instances of classes.
So for example the functions are instances of the function class.
Right there is a class in python that's named function.
And when you create a function it is an instance of that class.
Same thing with classes.
Right.
And I'm not talking about the instances of a class.
Obviously these are objects they are instances of a class but the class that you define yourself when
you let's say do a user defined class that is an object.
Right.
The class itself is an instance of the class type and they were types.
The type itself would type type of int your idol type of a variable that was an int and it told us int.
Well that is a class.
Right.
There is a class called in so this means that all of these things have memory addresses.
In particular functions have a memory address and that's going to be really important throughout the
course.
So it's like a side bar and look at that.
Let's say we create this function.
Def my funk.
OK.
So this is the name of the function my funk and then maybe here we have some parameters.
Well what happens is that my funk is basically our variable name but our variable points to a function
object.
Right.
That exists at some memory address and has some state that the state of the function includes many things
it includes Well obviously the code right that's typed in my phone.
But also what's happening to variables is they get created within that scope and so on.
So all of that is down to the function state.
So we can look at the ID of my funk just like we can call ID on any other variable or my phone is just
another variable just happens to be a function object instead of an integer object.
Right.
So we call it can call that.
And we will get back that memory address whatever that is.
Now we are not going to be using the memory addresses of functions in our code right.
I just want to point this out.
So we understand what's happening.
Now what this means is that as a consequence well remember any object can be assigned to a variable
well including functions you can you can assign a function to a variable.
I will see some examples of that in a minute.
Any object can be passed to a function right past into the arguments of the function into the parameters
as an argument.
Well that means that functions can also be passed to functions something that will make a lot of use
of when we are looking at things like decorator's for example.
Now any object can also be written from a function.
Right.
And the return statement including your guessed it functions right.
So functions are first class citizens just like any other variable like integer or float would be right.
You can reference them you can assign them to a variable you can reference them however you want which
means you can pass them into functions.
You can get them as a return from a function.
Right.
And this really makes Python very powerful.
OK so one little side note that I want to make and that's in terms of my phunk here.
It's very important.
My phunk without the parentheses is the name of the function.
If you use my func with the parentheses that will invoke the function.
Right.
So be very careful here.
When we're going to pass around my funk we're not going to use the parentheses.
We don't want to call the function we don't want to invoke the function.
We just want to pass the function name while the function name is this name over here without the parentheses.
OK when you have the parentheses and possibly even arguments there you're actually calling or invoking
the function.
All right so it's I a look at some code examples and see how this works.
So let's start by let's say creating a variable a setting at equal to 10.
Then we can print up the type of a.
And it tells us that it's a class of type int.
Right.
So in other words is an int instance.
So if a is an instance if it is a class we should be able to create new instances of that class using
our standard instantiation notation in Python for creating new objects given a class so we could do
this we could say a equals int and then pass in the initial value footprint and you'll see that B while
B is 10.
And if we print the type of B we get that it's an integer.
Right.
So no difference.
It's just creating a new class.
But you know this syntax allows us to not have to write this one.
Now sometimes we want to use this and we'll see that when we start looking at integers in more detail.
The other thing too is that classes in Python can have built in documentation.
And when we get to the object oriented portion of the course we'll see how to include documentation
for our classes as we write them.
But the builtin classes also have documentation and you can bring them up by typing help.
And then the class name that you're interested in.
So help and for example will return a few things that will tell us OK you know you have this kind of
constructor right for end where you can just pass in the value that you want to create as an integer.
And by default it will be equal to zero.
So if you don't pass in a value it will just create an integer with a value of zero.
You can also create integers with different bases.
Right.
So you can pass in.
Usually this will be a string and you tell it what base you want to be in and it will convert from that
base.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's say we have C equals and k then C is zero.
We can also say C equals int and let's say I'm going to take in this string here.
1 0 1 and we'll do a base of two.
So base is a keyword argument and we'll study what those are in an upcoming section with keyword arguments
and parameters.
So now we'll look at the value of c it's 5.
Right.
Because this is the position to do that too which is four.
So we have one for we have zero to do the ones that we have 1 2 0.
So this is 5 in binary notation which is base 2.
So this is another way of creating integers and so therefore integers are objects right and the instance
of the class OK.
So I really want to take a quick look now at the fact that functions are objects too.
So let's go ahead and write this function here.
I will write a function called Square which is just going to return a square.
Right.
So a very simple function you probably wouldn't want to write something like that in practice.
Now let's look at the type of square.
Right square is the name of the function.
So it's it's like a variable name and it tells us that it is a function.
Ok in fact you can print the type of squares and that will tell you it's a class of type function.
So it is a function so we can say F is well sorry f equals square right.
If if square is a memory address reference if it's a pointer we can assign it to another variable so
we can do that F equals Square.
And if we look at the ID of square it has a memory address.
And if we look at the idea of f it has the same memory address.
Right.
So f is square.
That is true.
Right.
So you can call square passing into.
And it should return four but you can also call it by not calling invoking F..
Right.
By using this parentheses.
So if we do that we get four as well.
Right.
Now a function can also return a function.
So let's create another function here let's call it Kubik of a.
Now let's have a return a cubed k.
And now I'm going to write another function that's going to say death select function and let's say
we're going to pass in a function ID.
For now I'm going to say if function ID equals 1 we'll get a return Square.
Else return cube.
Right.
So what are we returning.
Well if we're going to pass in a value if that value is 1 we're going to return the name we're going
to return the reference.
Right.
That is referenced by this name squarer.
Otherwise we're going to return this reference cube.
OK.
Now we can say F equals select function and let's say we're going to select the square function.
So we're going to do that.
So now look at what the ID well of f and square is f is square that is true.
Right because why.
Well when we call select function with one as the argument it received that here in function ID and
it said oh it's equal to 1.
Then we turn this function Square.
So we're passing functions around just like we would pass variables around.
The only difference is that functions are in vocable.
So now we can say F 2 which returns 4.
If on the other hand we had said F equals select function to k then we'd see that f is actually cube.
Right.
That is true.
And f of two would return eight.
Right.
So we can return functions from other functions which is something that we going to make really good
use of.
Now you can also if you want if you don't want to have to assign that to a variable first.
You can certainly do that.
You can say select function Feigin type select function.
Let's say we'll select the cube function and we'll pass it the value of three.
OK.
That returns 27.
What happened is that it first evaluated this said OK I'm going to return right cube.
And now I've applied cube it invoked cube with three as the parameters and we'll see that again in lot
of detail throughout the scores we'll be using that all the time.
Now a function can be passed to a function as well.
Right.
So let's go ahead and write this method here.
Exec function again.
Probably not something you would write as is like this but it does illustrate the point.
So this function is going to take two parameters.
The first parameter is going to be a function and then we are going to apply this function to this variable
here.
And return the value.
So we're going to return we're going to invoke F-in and it's argument is going to be this parameter
n k.
So now we could say exec function.
Well what do we want.
Well let's say we want to execute the cube function on the value 3 and we get 27 right.
So as you can see we passed the reference to cube.
It was assigned here.
So now by the way remember there was a shared reference to that function.
OK.
We also passed the value 3 and it received the function and the value and it invoked the function f
and whatever it may be right with the value.
So if we had done exec function
square three we would get nine.
All right.
So functions are first class citizens they're objects just like everything else in Python.
So most everything is an object in Python including operators including types including classes functions
and what have you.
All right.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in the next video.